# CSC8631 — Data Management and Exploratory Data Analysis

# Introduction

Data handling and characterisation are a central part of Data Science. With a deluge of data it can be critical to dissect, and explore, data in a systematic way. In doing so, this leads to reliable results using methods that can be reproduced, refined and interrogated by technical and non-technical stakeholders. This module aims to explores the principles of data management and rigorous experimental design. Furthermore, we introduce the underlying technologies and computational tools that are required to support best practice in this area.

# Assignment

[https://ncl.instructure.com/courses/40029/files/4940842?module_item_id=2016293](https://ncl.instructure.com/courses/40029/files/4940842?module_item_id=2016293)
In this coursework you will develop a data analysis pipeline to explore a given dataset. There are no formal requirements for the functionality or focus of your analysis. Your data analysis should follow routes of enquiry which are of greatest interest to you. Therefore, there exists scope for a great deal of flexibility so we anticipate solutions to this challenge will vary.

1. **Exploratory data analysis of dataset [80% of total mark]**
    1. **Source code:** You are expected to submit all source code developed in the coursework. You should also provide a README.txt document clearly stating which files relate to which part of the coursework solution. Your README.txt file should also provide instructions on running your analyses. These instructions should be sufficient to run the analysis. This should be automated as much as possible, and any non-automated configuration or installation steps should be clearly documented.
    2. **Written report:** Written reports should be submitted in PDF format, and should clearly indicate your name and student number within the document, and also in the file name.
    3. **Presentation:** Slides in PDF format, and in source code format e.g. RMarkdown, Keynote, PowerPoint. Presentation video, e.g. mp4.
    4. **Zip files:** You will often be submitting a number of files at once. You will likely find it most convenient to zip these files up prior to submitting them to NESS. Please ensure any zip files contain your student number and module code in the filename.
    5. **Version Control:** log In this coursework assignment we emphasise the importance of correctly using version control. You should include with your coursework submission a copy of your Git log. This may be easily obtained using the following command; git log > [yourstudentnumber]GitLogFile.txt.
2. **Critical reflection [20% of total mark]**
    
    Prepare a short report via NESS (no more than two pages) summarising the work carried out, and a critical reflection on your experience using the tools and techniques introduced on this module in completing the coursework assignment. We are particularly interested in any assumptions you made about the data, and how they motivated your design decisions.
    
    ---
    
    ### **EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS OF DATASET**
    
    [210449787_SIrvine_CSC8631_EDA](CSC8631%20%E2%80%94%20%20b2429/210449787_%20f4648.md)
    
    **FutureLearn MOOC Dataset:**
    [https://ncl.instructure.com/courses/40029/modules/items/2015453](https://ncl.instructure.com/courses/40029/modules/items/2015453)
    
    **Submit via NESS:** *December 3 2021*
    
    ---
    
    ### CRITICAL REFLECTION
    
    [210449787_SIrvine_CSC8631_Reflection](CSC8631%20%E2%80%94%20%20b2429/210449787_%20ea8d8.md)
    
    **Submit via NESS:** *December 3 2021*
    
    ---