# CSC8626 — Data Visualization

# Introduction

Data visualization systems create visual representations of datasets designed to help people carry out tasks more quickly or more effectively. These systems form a critical link between data analytics outputs and the human perception and cognition of the meaning of those outputs. The aim of this module is to introduce students to the theoretical underpinnings of the subject and allow them to build skills in the practice of creating data visualizations.

# Assignment

[https://ncl.instructure.com/courses/40022/pages/sa1-summative-assignment-outbreak?module_item_id=1936145](https://ncl.instructure.com/courses/40022/pages/sa1-summative-assignment-outbreak?module_item_id=1936145)

Visualization has become a tool both for the exploration of raw data and for the presentation of analysed data to end users. In this assignment you are asked to represent your analysis of data about a medical emergency in a city to an end user who must make a rapid decision using the data.

1. **Visualizing Uncertainty  — Power BI [90% of total mark]**
    1. **Part 1 : Visualizing uncertainty and impact from a single file (60%)**
    Your task is to create an interactive visualization that allows a decision maker to compare different areas of the city by the impact of the outbreak and by the uncertainty of that impact. Your aim is to enable the viewer to understand the situation and then decide which areas of the city to target first with medical aid.
    2. **Part 2 : Visualizing variation across multiple scenarios (30%)** 
    Your task here is to demonstrate the impact and uncertainty of the scenarios across multiple simulation runs. Again, you are aiming to help the decision maker decide which areas of the city it is most important to target with aid first. But now there are up to one thousand different variations in the wind speed and direction (four per data file). You might be able to do this with your solution to part 1 but it is possible you will need an overview visualization of some kind.
2. **Report [10% of total mark]**
    
    Complete the description sheet sections for both parts of the assignment. This can be in note form and should in total be between one and no more than three pages long. You should add a list of references to articles or other sources of information you have used to produce the visualization.
    
     
    
    ---
    
    ### VISUALIZING UNCERTAINTY — Power BI
    
    [210449787_SIrvine_CSC8626_Visualization](CSC8626%20%E2%80%94%20%20a5823/210449787_%20c1309.md)
    
    **Part 1 Dataset:**
    
    [](https://binocularity.s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/Teaching/DV2020_01/SA1_summativeassignment/Datafile_014.csv)
    
    **Part 2 Dataset:**
    
    [](https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com/binocularity/Teaching/DV2020_01/SA1_summativeassignment/DV_CSC8626_Data_Wrangled.zip)
    
    **Submit via NESS:** *October 22 2021*
    
    ---
    
    ### REPORT
    
    [210449787_SIrvine_CSC8631_Reflection](CSC8626%20%E2%80%94%20%20a5823/210449787_%2043d0b.md)
    
    **Submit via NESS:** *October 22 2021*
    
    ---