# 210449787_SIrvine_CSC8631_EDA

### **Exploratory data analysis of dataset [80% of total mark]**

1. **Source code:** You are expected to submit all source code developed in the coursework. You should also provide a README.txt document clearly stating which files relate to which part of the coursework solution. Your README.txt file should also provide instructions on running your analyses. These instructions should be sufficient to run the analysis. This should be automated as much as possible, and any non-automated configuration or installation steps should be clearly documented.
2. **Written report:** Written reports should be submitted in PDF format, and should clearly indicate your name and student number within the document, and also in the file name.
3. **Presentation:** Slides in PDF format, and in source code format e.g. RMarkdown, Keynote, PowerPoint. Presentation video, e.g. mp4.
4. **Zip files:** You will often be submitting a number of files at once. You will likely find it most convenient to zip these files up prior to submitting them to NESS. Please ensure any zip files contain your student number and module code in the filename.
5. **Version Control:** log In this coursework assignment we emphasise the importance of correctly using version control. You should include with your coursework submission a copy of your Git log. This may be easily obtained using the following command; git log > [yourstudentnumber]GitLogFile.txt

---

### Dataset

[FutureLearn MOOC Dataset.zip](210449787_%20f4648/FutureLearn_MOOC_Dataset.zip)

---

### Steps

1. Download data and read the assignment instructions and expectations
2. Set up R Studio, project 
3. Set up Github repositiory
4. Use Bash to synchronise local repository and Github
5. Load data into project
6. Visualise tables in table format (head, last 10 etc.)
7. rplyr to manipulate tables
8. Clean data (look for gaps, impute)
9. Visualise using ggPlot to explain all appropriate dimensions
10. Derive some hypotheses based on basic visualisations
11. For each hypothesis commence Transforms/Visualise/Model loop
12. Look to add additional data (if necessary)
13. Following hypotheses, present findings using rmarkdown and PowerPoint
14. Ensure version control and documentation

---

### Deliverables

- **Source code**
    
    [README.md](210449787_%20f4648/README.md)
    
    [rmarkdown.tex](210449787_%20f4648/rmarkdown.tex)
    
- **Written report**
    
    [CSC8631_RMarkdown_SIrvine_210449787.pdf](210449787_%20f4648/CSC8631_RMarkdown_SIrvine_210449787.pdf)
    
    [CSC8631_RMarkdown_SIrvine_210449787.html](210449787_%20f4648/CSC8631_RMarkdown_SIrvine_210449787.html)
    
- **Presentation:**
    
    [CSC8631_SIrvine_210449787_Presentation.pptx](210449787_%20f4648/CSC8631_SIrvine_210449787_Presentation.pptx)
    
- **Zip files**
    
    [](https://github.com/simontirvine/CSC8631-SIrvine)
    
- **Version Control**
    
    [gitlog](210449787_%20f4648/gitlog.txt)
    
    ---